Add Space Acres translation guide (#596)
autonomys/subspace-docs: docs/participate/translate_space_acres.md

---
title: Space Acres UI Translation Guide
sidebar_position: 4
description: Translation Guide for the Space Acres UI
keywords:
    - Space Acres UI translation
    - Community
    - Autonomys
    - Translate
    - Localization
---

## Translation Guide

Thank you for considering contributing to the Space Acres UI locallization! This guide is here to help you contribute to our goal of making farming on the Autonomys Network more accessible and inclusive by localizing or translating the user interface. The Autonomys Network is driven by a vision of a decentralized and equitable future, and we believe that overcoming language barriers is crucial to achieving this vision.

## Before you start

> Space Acres has a lot of techncical and Autonomys-related slang that **will not be translated correctly** via the AI-chats similar to **Chat GPT** or **Google Translate**. We kindly ask you to work to do all translations manually, since we can't really verify their correctness. We thank you for your understanding! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Space Acres has a lot of technical and Autonomys-related slang that **will not be translated correctly** via LLMs such as **Chat GPT** or translation services such as **Google Translate**. We kindly ask you to work to do all translations manually, since we can't really verify their correctness. We thank you for your understanding! 
```

Reviewer 2: Should we be explicitly stating that we are unable to verify translations? I feel that it is counter-intuitive.

## Step by Step Tutorial

> 1. Sign in into your [GitHub](https://github.com/) account, or create a new account if you don't have one yet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to your [GitHub](https://github.com/) account, or create a new account if you don't have one yet. 
```

> 2. Proceed to [Space Acres translations folder](https://github.com/autonomys/space-acres/tree/main/res/translations) in the Space Acres reposotory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Proceed to the [Space Acres translations folder](https://github.com/autonomys/space-acres/tree/main/res/translations) in the Space Acres repository.
```

    ![sa-translate-1](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-1.png)

3. Check that the language you're planning to translate the UI to **has not been translated yet**! 

> 4. Click on **Add File** and select **Create New File**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on **Add file** and select **Create new file**.
```

    
    ![sa-translate-2](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-2.png)

    

> 5. Provide the name of the file: it should start with the two letters from [an IBAN Alpha-2 code](https://www.iban.com/country-codes) list followed by the `/messages.ftl`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Provide the name of the file: it should start with the two letters representing a country code from the list of [IBAN Alpha-2 codes](https://www.iban.com/country-codes) list followed by `/messages.ftl`. 
```

    ![sa-translate-3](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-3.png)

>     For example, if you're willing to translate the Space Acres UI into **Russian language**, you would put `ru/messages/ftl`. You will notice that as soon as you put the forward slash `/` after the double-digit language code, it would turn **blue**, meaning that your translation file will be created in a folder, which is correct and expected!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, if you're planning to translate the Space Acres UI into the **Russian language**, you would put `ru/messages/ftl`. You will notice that as soon as you put the forward slash `/` after the 2-character language code, it will turn **blue**, meaning that your translation file will be created in a folder which is correct and expected.
```

    ![sa-translate-4](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-4.png)

> 6. Copy the content of the [English Subspace UI](https://github.com/autonomys/space-acres/blob/main/res/translations/en/messages.ftl) into the **Edit window**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Copy the content of the [English Space Acres UI](https://github.com/autonomys/space-acres/blob/main/res/translations/en/messages.ftl) into the **Edit window**.
```

    ![sa-translate-5](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-5.png)

7. Start translating messages from the UI into the language of your choice! Please make sure to only translate the text that comes after the `=` sign. Also, please **don't translate** any variables, e.g. `{$chain_name}`.

    ![sa-translate-6](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-6.png)

> 8. When you finish translating the **whole file**, click on **Commit Changes...**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. When you finish translating the **whole file**, click on **Commit changes...**.
```

    
    ![sa-translate-7](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-7.png)

> 9. You will see the new window apprear!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. You will see a new window appear!
```

    
    ![sa-translate-8](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-8.png)

10. Adjust the commit message and the change description.

    ![sa-translate-9](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-9.png)

> 11. Additionally, you could adjust the branch-name from the generic one to the one, that makes the most sense. E.g. `add-your-language-support` and click on `Propose Changes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Additionally, you could adjust the branch-name from the generic one to one that makes the most sense e.g. `add-your-language-support` and click on `Propose changes`.
```

    ![sa-translate-10](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-10.png)

> 12. Look at your changes by scrolling down the page one last time and ensure that everything is translated correctly before submitting the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. Review your changes by scrolling down the page one last time and ensure that everything is translated correctly before submitting the changes.
```

    ![sa-translate-11](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-11.png)

    ![sa-translate-12](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-12.png)

> 13. Submit your changed by clicking on **Create Pull Request**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. Submit your changed by clicking on **Create pull request**.
```

>     ![sa-translate-13](/img/doc-imgs/space-acres-translate/sa-translate-13.png)

Reviewer: Could we add a final message here please? 

> Your translation submission is now complete and next steps are for the team to review before providing feedback and/or merging the pull request. Thanks for your help in bringing Space Acres to an even wider audience!
